Advanced Telekinesis: How to Succeed
by Not_Important

Hello everyone!
This article covers a simple topic, but a difficult question for many people who have already had success in Telekinesis: How to get better in it.

Before you read the article I expect that you have already moved things with your mind. I also expect that you have read the other articles on PsiPog about TK. They have the basic idea between the lines of their text. This article won't give you any additional information about how you do TK or how it works. I'll only discuss a method of practice and some dangers telekinesis can cause.

Let's start with an example: You have been practicing telekinesis every day on the paper-on-pin (I told you to read other articles first, huh? Smile). After some time you have had your first success. Then after a couple of weeks (months?) you could already move the paper forwards and backwards with less effort. But you didn't feel being completely controlling it. You wanted the total control, but the more you practiced the more you realized that you can't gain it. Then you started to believe that you have reached your limits and that you will never be able to move bigger things. This hopeless situation stopped your TK practice. You focused on other things.

And now I'm here to tell you that there is still hope Smile. You can still reach your objective. You didn't give up when you started practicing telekinesis with no success, why do you give up now, half way there?

The key to success lies in your practice. The point is that you will never gain complete power over the psi-wheel if you practice with the psi-wheel only. When you see that you are already able to move the psi-wheel more or less in the direction you want it to move, then it's time to move on another level. Just give the psi-wheel up and start practicing with pencils. Try to roll them. There is an easy law I've figured out during my research: You won't have 100% control over the psi-wheel if you can't move pencils Smile. Maybe it sounds stupid, but that's the way it is. To accomplish a level you have to be already on another, more difficult, level.

When you start with pencils you won't see any success at first. You will be on a "learning plateau" like the first time when you started practicing telekinesis. You will spend many days (weeks?) trying to move the pencil. It might be hard at first, but you'll learn it, like you did it with the paper-on-pin. You will get more and more power over the pencil and then I'd like you to try to move the psi-wheel again. You will be amazed how simple it has become.

And again: Don't stay where you are now! To get better you have to go on. As your next step you could try to slide pencils or other small objects. Rolling is relatively easy, but sliding you have a big friction to overcome. And again: You'll see no success at first, but keep the practice and be sure that you can do it. This way you'll become more and more advanced in telekinesis until you find your true limits. I'm sure you'll know it when you reach it. Don't think that you can't go on only because it doesn't move. As you already know: The keyword is "practice".

It's not a secret that I've lasted 9 months to get where I am now. I've had much luck, but I've also practiced many hours. "The chance favors the prepared mind" hehe. The biggest thing I can move is a chair. And no, I can't levitate anything. I think I have got good genes for TK stuff, therefore don't be sad if you can't move chairs after 9 months Smile.

The more advanced you get the more responsibility you have to take. I don't want to sound like your parents, guys, but since this article covers advanced telekinesis I think I have to tell you the dangers. Be careful what you are doing with it. Telekinesis is like fire: you could use it in many ways. Control your anger. I don't think it would be a big problem to make an artery explode in someone's head. So control yourself. The best thing is to meditate each day and breathe deep in difficult situations Smile.

People fear things they don't understand. And they fight against things they fear. Therefore think before you show your ability. This reminds me about some wise words: You are always stronger as your opponent as long as he doesn't mean your real power Smile. Think about it.

Believe me or not, I've broken all these rules. And at the end I wished I would never had this ability. Just to give you a short example of what not to do I'll tell you a little story:

The whole college knows that I'm a telekinetic guy. They don't let me alone! "Move this or move that"! Maybe I liked it at first, but then it has become a horror.

One day I was angry with a teacher. The funny thing is that I don't even remember why. Anyway, I've moved her chair away when she tried to sit down. She was already an old person and I still feel her pain. That was the darkest day in my life. They even wanted later to kick me out of the college for this. Thanks God, I have had enough courage to hold a speech about TK and promised never again to use it in school time.

Telekinesis is not a toy, guys. Follow the rules I told you and your success in telekinesis will be pure. Without any problems.

You have reached the end of this article. I have no good conclusion in my head, so just remember the things I told you: Practice and be careful.
Smile

NI / Not Important

Tags: HZTypeArticle, HZSourcePsipog, HZCatPsychokinesis