ed Silly by Your Regular PK Practice?
by Rainsong

Occasionally in a chat room, or in e-mail, I've been asked for ways to practice psychokinesis (in the broad sense) other than whatever practice exercise the questioner usually does, be it psi-wheels, the paperclip-on-a-glass thing, et cetera. So far, no one has been brave or foolhardy enough to ask such a question in person. Hehehe. My usual answer is to suggest a dogfight with paper airplanes. And, of course, the questioner usually assumes I'm kidding. Their mistake.

If you stop and think about it, you will probably admit that it takes very little imagination to come up with minor psychokinetic effects to play with and hone one's skills. For those who prefer to use their brain cells for other purposes than this kind of speculation, I humbly offer a small assortment of alternative PK practices.

Dogfight with paper airplanes. If you're feeling non-violent, or simply can't find a sparring partner, aerobatic displays can be amusing, too. Or practice carrier landings on a toy boat in the bath tub. The airplanes don't really have to be constructed of paper, of course. Cheap-and-cheerful toy planes made of plastic, styrofoam, or light-weight metal can be substituted, if you feel like it. I would not recommend the use of fragile model planes, though; too easy to break them, and worrying about that possibility is likely to interfere with your concentration.

Affect the flight of bubbles. No doubt you've seen soap bubbles blown into the air by little kids, or by the guests at a wedding. Perhaps you've even blown some soap bubbles yourself. A bit of glycerin and dish soap in a cup or so of water makes adequate bubble solution, and commercial bubble solutions can be purchased quite easily. Simply blow some bubbles into the air, and move them around as you feel like it. This one's relatively easy for the subconscious to deal with, no matter how doubtful you are, because the bubbles could have moved "that" way on their own.

A pretty PK toy that is relatively fashionable is a fish bowl filled with water, and in which is suspended a little glass fish tied to a small glass float. Make the fish "swim" around by telekinetically bopping the float. If you prefer, replace the fish with toy sailboats and small plastic submarines.

Bending spoons and other metal objects is probably too obvious to bother mentioning. I don't recommend playing with your Mum's silverware. Instead, get some cheap-and-cheerful cutlery at jumble sales and el-cheapo stores, and turn them into metal pretzels. :) Of course, it doesn't really have to be cutlery. Long nails and bolts, thick wire stock, or any of those sorts of easily-acquired metal toys work just as well.

Then, of course, there are the more conventional toys: dice, game spinners, roulette wheels... Play pool without the cues. Float game-pieces around the game board. Animate your table-top war-games miniatures. Teach Ken and Barbie to dance the Viennese Waltz.

Video games also present possibilities. Play regular video games without bothering with the mouse, joystick or keyboard. Try your hand at the commercial and experimental psi video games; they tend to be a bit primitive, but they are fun, nonetheless. Mess around with your screensaver, making the 'random' movement do what you want it to.

The possibilities are countless, limited only by your imagination, really. What is now your excuse for not practicing you PK? "Laziness" and "I don't want to" are at least honest. As you can see, however, "There's nothing to do but spin my psi-wheel and I'm sick of that" is not.

*** Just for the record, while all of the above activities have been done, I have not tried them all personally.***

Rainsong

Tags: HZTypeArticle, HZSourcePsipog, HZCatPsychokinesis