Clairvoyance
by SunTzu

Before attempting this, one should be familiar with communicating with their subconscious mind. Please read Peebrain's article on it, and put it into practice, this is required. Communicating with your Subconscious[https://github.com/fractalcatjordan/libhazeltine/blob/main/psipog.net/articles/communicating-with-subc.txt].

First, let me start off by letting you know why I have written an article on this subject matter. In the beginning of the US government's psychic program, there was StarGate, who developed the processes now known as "Remote Viewing", and similar processes were used in Soviet Russia before the US started research. There are many articles on each of these techniques; they are available at http://www.firedocs.com and http://www.crvmanual.com.

Later on, different methods of Viewing came into effect, and into psionic literature. One of these was "Remote Presence", a similar approach, but both more passive and more forceful (if it is possible for a technique to be both at the same time). Yumper has also written an article and held a seminar on this subject matter, which I encourage you to check out for more information (Remote Presence[https://github.com/fractalcatjordan/libhazeltine/blob/main/psipog.net/articles/remote-presence.txt], and Remote Presence Seminar[https://github.com/fractalcatjordan/libhazeltine/blob/main/psipog.net/articles/remote-presence-log.txt]). Unfortunately, since the "creation" of Remote Presence, it has also adopted it's own methods which a new writer can only deviate slightly from.

So, here's the deal: I'm going to write what I actually do and you can call it whatever you want, I call it Remote Viewing, Remote Presence, Clairvoyance, or Clairsentience depending on my mood. I give up with names; I'm just going with what works.

Now that you're sufficiently bored, I'm actually going to start in with technique in what is hopefully an easy step-by-step method:

Step 1: Prepare
As with most psionic skills, the first thing you do is to prepare. Some people take the inevitable "clear your mind", some people ground/center, some people meditate, some people start with a light trance, even a simple count-down from 10 can work. In one of the books I read the author always took off his socks. For me, it depends on my mood, but I enjoy trancing.
Make sure that you start with a blank slate, and no preconceived ideas about what you are going to be viewing. If you say "I am going to see a maple leaf" and then try to see an object, you will see a maple leaf, regardless of what the actual object is. This is known as Analytic Overlay (or AOL). That's why you always try to start with one of these preparatory techniques.

Step 2: Decide what your target is
Although this may seem easy (and it usually is), try to refine your target to one noun (person, place, thing). This can be expanded further later on, but for the initial search, limit it to one thing. I know that was confusing, so please allow me to provide an example:
You want to know where person X is. What you are trying to find is not "the area where person X is", you are trying to find person X. Then, after you have found them, and "see" them, you can try to focus on the area where they are. If you initially search for the area of person X, the clairvoyance becomes much more unreliable, and more time-consuming (unless you have trained yourself already to do the above steps).
Step 3: Clearly state to yourself what you wish to find
Tell your subconscious exactly what you are looking for. In my first exercises with this skill, I would mentally voice, "where is Joe?" Doing this helps your subconscious mind to receive its target. Also, as you think of your target, think of things that you associate with your target. Examples:
"Where is Joe?" accompanying this question with a picture of Joe, what Joe "feels like", or his psychic signature.
"Where are my keys?" accompanying this with the feel of your keys, the color of your keys, a specific key-chain, a metallic smell, etc.
"Where is the new house?" accompanying this with things that you know about the new house.
Please note: anything you associate with these things, or pictures you bring up, must fade away before you start "looking" at your target. Remember, you must have a blank slate in order to avoid AOL.
Step 4: Wait
Yes, I know that after all of this preparation you are anxious, but you have to wait for your subconscious to answer your question. This may come as a feeling ("pocket"), or a direction ("to your left") or a location ("Midwest USA"), but for me, I just have to wait and get this feeling.
In the beginning this could take as much as 5-10 minutes, but you get faster as your subconscious learns to view. It now takes me between 1-3 minutes to get an initial feeling.

Step 5: View
*Gasp* you knew it was coming, but didn't realize it took this much effort, did you? After you have the answer to the question ("pocket," "to your left," "Midwest USA" etc.), instruct your subconscious to "take you there", or "show it to you", and wait for whatever you see (this shouldn't take long).
So here's a brief run-down of one of my early clairvoyant experiences:

SunTzu clears his mind with a brief meditation
SunTzu assigns Joe as his Target
SunTzu asks his subconscious, "where is Joe?"
SunTzu waits until he finally receives information from the subconscious ("South, West, Right")
SunTzu instructs subconscious to "take me there"
SunTzu sees a picture of Joe, then focuses on the picture, and conducts his intended practice (scanning and shielding was that night).
In Review:
Relax, decide what you want to see/know, state it to your subconscious mind, wait for a response, then command it to show you.
Overall, it is a fairly simple technique that merely requires a decent amount of practice. (although it can be fairly "quick and dirty").

Special thanks to: Kingcob, DanielH, and DagoRed for proofreading/editting

*_# TZ_

Tags: HZTypeArticle. HZSourcePsipog, HZCatRemoteViewing