Concerning 'Phasing'
by Rainsong

In the course of one's studies in Psionics, most people play with psi-balls, experiment with telepathy and empathic projection, and put a considerable amount of effort into learning to harness the standard kinetic disciplines. Grounding, centering, Shielding and such are commonplace. However, if one delves deeper into the possibilities offered by one's psionic talents, there are a multitude of weird and wonderful things to do, that 'normal' people would scoff and dismiss as violations of the basic laws of physics.

Phasing is one such activity. In this context, I am using the word to mean passing an apparently solid object, such as one's physical body, through another apparently solid object, such as a wall or a car door. At risk of offending purists, I have borrowed this use of the term from science fiction. Unfortunately, the concept itself is not fictional.

During the Spring and Summer of 1999, things got too weird, even for me. In March of that year, I started 'falling' through things: tables, countertops, car doors, and such. There was some resistance, but very little, passing through things. Once, I woke up in the morning part-way through the sofa-bed...and that time, it hurt.

This was not a discipline I'd learned in my studies. Indeed, until it started happening, it hadn't occurred to me that such a thing was even possible. Even after it had been happening for a while, I still found it difficult to believe. Curious (okay, more like 'terrified'), I tried to find out more about what was happening to me. Thirty or forty hours' worth of web-searches turned up one paragraph, mentioning this as a theoretical possibility, in a nifty on-line book about Quantum Mechanics. (1) Of all the conventional books I'd read, only works of fiction include it. A friend of mine pointed out the sum-over-paths theory, and with her help, I was able to reconfigure my Shields to stop the accidental phasings from happening. (2) That was after it had been going on, at random intervals, for six months.

As of this writing (October 2000), I have not attempted to phase deliberately. What follows is theory only, unless otherwise noted.

Anyone who has read Skywind's works (3) would not be surprised that she suggested 'using' the emotions and feeling associated with the experiences to learn to control them. Looking back on it, there may have been some subconscious connection between these occurrences and some sort of emotional internal dialogue, in the same way that a figurative 'pain in the neck' can become literal; it tended to happen when things were 'falling apart', and the emotions involved tended to be along the lines of sorrow, devastation, and emotional exhaustion. (Has it yet become clear that this was not a fun experience?)

As it seems to be the case with most psionic activities, I expect that someone wishing to accomplish this deliberately would have more success using a vivid internal visualization of the desired result to direct the process, rather than a verbal command or instruction. The more senses involved in the 'visualization', the more effective it is likely to be.

The sum-over-paths bit that I used to stop it, may be useful in getting it to work. The idea is to synchronize the molecular orbits of the bits of one's body, and also of the object through which you wish to pass, arranging it so the orbits don't collide. Obviously, this is a fairly complex application of psychokinesis at the molecular level...an interesting challenge.

Something else that may be of use in this pursuit is the deliberate distortion of one's Shields, 'fluffing' them out and making them less solid, as if trying to mesh minds with another person. Bearing in mind that this is merely speculation, this idea does have two supporting factors: mind meshing is not all that different a task; and in order to stop phasing, I had to make my Shields tighter and more solid, at least at first.

It is possible that teleportation might be worked by the same means, phasing the entire body into, for example, the 'astral plane' and rematerializing elsewhere. As with all high-energy-use psionic disciplines, there are certain risks involved in trying any of this, and those risks are not limited to a bit of a fright and a nasty headache.

Notes
1) The Quantum Mind, by Robert Elland
2) Thanks, Christine!
3) Skywind's Lighthouse, and 'Active Psy'

Rainsong

HZTypeArticle, HZSourcePsipog