Cult Rant
by annie

My name is annie, and I have a rant.
Today I'd like to talk about cults.
What is a cult? Let's ask our friends at Merriam Webster.
Main Entry: cult
Pronunciation: 'k&lt
Function: noun
Usage: often attributive
Etymology: French & Latin; French culte, from Latin cultus care, adoration, from colere to cultivate -- more at WHEEL
Date: 1617
1 : formal religious veneration : WORSHIP
2 : a system of religious beliefs and ritual; also : its body of adherents
3 : a religion regarded as unorthodox or spurious; also : its body of adherents
4 : a system for the cure of disease based on dogma set forth by its promulgator <health cults>
5 a : great devotion to a person, idea, object, movement, or work (as a film or book); especially : such devotion regarded as a literary or intellectual fad b : a usually small group of people characterized by such devotion

Most of you aren't old enough to remember the cults that made the news. Like Jonestown in 1978. That November, 913 people (yes, nine hundred and thirteen) committed mass suicide after a U.S. Representative went over to their island to investigate reports of abuse. After some people tried to leave with the congressman, the cult leader Jim Jones instructed everyone to drink kool-aid laced with potassium cyanide.

Even some of the more recent ones to make the news, you probably barely even noticed. You know that something bad happened in Waco, and maybe even think the government screwed up. But what happened? There was a 51 day standoff between the Davidians at their compound and the United States government. The showdown began February 28, 1993 when agents from the ATF (bureau of alcohol, tobacco, and firearms) tried to arrest David Koresh, the leader, for possession of illegal firearms and explosives. Nobody really knows who shot first, but the city of Waco, Texas was taken aback by gunfire.

How about Heaven's Gate? This wasn't that long ago, either. March 28, 1997, 39 people commit mass suicide near San Diego hoping to die in time for the Hale Bopp comet to whoosh them off to heaven. This was all orchestrated by one man, named Marshall Applewhite.

All of these crazy things happen, with one person pulling the strings. How does this happen? How do we, as a community, avoid ever going there? Well. If you know Peebrain or myself, you would laugh at the thought of us ever being able to sustain a cult. We're just a couple of young adults, having a good time, and trying to learn more about these psychic skills.

I can't stress this next point enough. No matter what stance PsiPog chooses to take on any particular subject, we don't get to speak for you. Form your own opinions, however it is you normally form them. Just because Peebrain believes something, doesn't mean you have to. And just because I don't believe something else, doesn't mean you don't have to. You are all individuals. You're here in pursuit of guidance, not manipulation.

Also, just because some of us are more skilled at any given area (psychokinesis, any of the 'pathies) doesn't make us better than you. Even though I may be a better telepath, you are more skilled somewhere else in life. Don't put us on pedestals. We're human. Not to say don't ask us questions. That's why we are here: to help you. But realize we're just like everyone else you meet, with a few different talents.

Don't let anyone else speak for you. Research. Form your own opinions. And stick with them. If anything, you should leave PsiPog more pigheaded. I don't want a bunch of little annie's and Peebrain's running around. How ridiculous would that be?

We provide as much information as we can to aid you in your pursuit of guidance. The journey is ultimately yours.

-annie

