Dreamwalking
by Rainsong

Yet another of the more obscure psionic skills which nevertheless appear in movie and novel plots, 'dreamwalking' is the ability to enter into another person's dream. Sometimes the intention is merely to observe, sometimes a two-way telepathic communication is desired, but dreamwalking is most notorious for the control of the dream, and thereby, to some degree, of the dreamer. It is, of course, a telepathic application; or, perhaps more correctly, a subset of telepathic applications.

A dreamwalker may conduct his forays from a lucid dream state. This is probably the most common form of the discipline. He might also dreamwalk while in a hypnotic trance, either self-induced, or guided/controlled by someone else. Less often acknowledged, he may just as easily dreamwalk starting in whatever passes for his normal waking state of consciousness. This is purely a matter of personal preference, perhaps influenced by knowledge of one's own strengths and weaknesses. The technique described here works with little variation in any of these states.

Begin with whatever constitutes your normal preliminaries for a fairly complex working. Calm and center your mind. Focus on the task at hand, and decide precisely what you wish to do: whom are you going to affect, in what manner, at what time, and to what purpose? The 'when' is important, by the way, because it is possible to 'slip' through time, sort of, and affect a dream at a time other than during the actual working. Weird, but true.

Once your preparations are complete, visualize a grey mist closing in around you; warm and fluffy and comfortable and increasingly dense. Allow it to blot out all other sensations, then mentally 'swim' through it with a nice leisurely breast stroke. Each stroke will push away any thoughts that might distract you. 'Swim' toward your target person, knowing that your focused intent will lead you to the right one ~ if your focused intent is not sufficient to this task, dreamwalking is beyond your current skill.

Assuming your intentions are friendly, and the person whose dream you are entering has consented, call to the person as you seem to approach. A simple, "Hey, (whoever), are you there?" will generally do nicely. Greet him politely, and observe. If communication was your intention, form the words in your mind as though you were speaking, and listen for a reply. If you are doing this from a lucid dream state, just talk however you normally would in a lucid dream.

Obviously, dreamwalking may be use for less friendly purposes, for those inclined toward psionic combat. Methods of defense, or rather retaliation, against such an attack are many and varied: energy weapons, 'dream weapons', nightmares kept on hand for such a purpose... Anyone trying to use dreamwalking as a form of combat really can expect no mercy from his victim.

Rainsong

