A Psion's Guide to Psychometry
by Raveen

Charging - the use of the mind to put a thought, emotion or energy into an object usually the person using this is unaware that they are doing it.

Psychometry - the use of the mind to take out and read the thoughts, emotions or energy of a charged object.

Charging, also known as Imprinting, is weaving a thought, emotion, or energy into an object's atomic tapestry. You've probably used this ability more than once in you life. How? Well, more than likely you've gone to do something, and when you got to the place you were to do it at, it had slipped your mind. So what do you do? You go to the place where you first had the idea, and *Pop* there it is in your mind again!

Here is a small list of ways you can use Psychometry and charging:

Remembering things
A form of communication
(Pass a blank note, eraser, pencil, walrus... that has been imprinted on to a friend, and they will pick up on what you were thinking. If the professor catches you and he picks up the note or whatever there is no evidence that you and your friend were ever communicating!)
Getting the point across when you can not quite put something into words
Convincing some one to do something for you (>:-D Yes I know I'm evil...)
There are many different methods for Psychometry but I will use mine for this Article:

Clear your mind of any thoughts whatsoever.
Pick up an object you have never touched before, if you pick up an object you touched 2 minutes ago, this won't work. Get a friend to pick up an object and think of something like a fruit or vegetable, and then hand it to you.
Focus on the object, feel it without thinking about it.
Make sure there are not thoughts that are yours.
Write down any thoughts not purely yours.
Remember to practice, always practice.

Tips: Stay away from stress and rage imprinted objects! They may overload you brain if you have thoughts on your mind!!! "Read" money at your own risk! People can accidentally imprint on them without knowing it and you never know what they are thinking!!!

http://www.crystalinks.com/psychometry.html
HZPlaceholder://members.aol.com/_ht_a/davehypno/psychom.html
HZPlaceholder://freespace.virgin.net/russel.steward/psychome.htm

~Raveen

HZTypeArticle, HZSourcePsipog, HZCatPsychometry