An Easy Guide to Nifty Triggering
by Gnome

Greetings various variations of the gene pool!

Today I will talk about triggering, a nifty technique indeed. If you ever had problems with juggling the target's sig while keeping a steady sending, triggering should greatly help you. I got the inspiration for this while thinking about the classes of sign language I took some time ago. In sign language, there is something called "placing", which works like this. If you encounter a particularly long word or a word that is complicated to swiftly sign and you need to use it frequently in a conversation, you can sign it once followed by pointing to a location in the room. Whenever you need this word in the ongoing conversation, you just point to the spot where you temporarily placed the word. Nifty, isn't it?

The same phenomena can be applied to psionics. Now, I first must ensure you that I merely rediscovered this and I am in no position to claim otherwise. Secondly, I have yet to test the full possibility of triggering so this is something for you all to work with, I'm just giving you the basic how-to and some telepathy exercise to start working with. With that said, you must know how to retrieve a psi sign as well as minor scanning and/or awareness sensing ability. If you lack any such skill, rest assure that there are many articles and transcripts that will teach you this, but since I'm writing this, you might take a look at the sensitivity manual I wrote (here) to avoid conflicting use of terms.

So let's begin. I'll give you an easy pinging exercise to start with. Relax your mind with a couple of deep breaths and open up your awareness. Locate the target and make sure you have a good, clear feel of their sig. Now keep that in your mind, and scan around the target. Doesn't have to be full very in-depth at all, you are just going to read their output/field/awareness. When you have a good grasp of what their awareness feels like, you just program the trigger like any construct using these two components. While holding the clear sig, you recreate the awareness of the target and place it in a spot of the room. When it's strong and clear enough, you recreate the sig and put it as a lid in the middle so the target's sig emits the target's field. I'm sure you can do it the other way around, but this is the way I feel comfortable with. The construct is strong enough when you feel you are not alone in the room anymore, when the presence of your target is so strong he or she could very well be standing in the spot you picked out. Now you just shell the construct or leave it running while refilling it depending on how long you will be using it. Now what can you use this phantom person for? Well, a whole bunch of things gosh darnit! For one, you don't have to juggle the sig while keeping a strong sending anymore, you just send directly to the phantom figure, so if this was a problem before - fret no longer.

Pinging is a lot easier this way as you can focus all your attention on the phantom figure and if you perceive the construct as a humanoid figure, precise spot-pinging is easier too. Instead of a usual scan ping that seems to be popular around PsiPog, you can try giving the phantom a psychokinetic burst; it transferred just as well when I experimented with it. And because you are working through a medium, I found spontaneous linking is not as prone to happen, although this is most likely a psychological result of sending through "second hand". I also found long distance sending to be less taxing, but this too I attribute to the land of psychological hook-ups.

So this is triggering in its essence. I'm sure it opens up for more complex manoeuvres, but this is what I'll throw at you this time. For now, think of it as a speed dial number. As long as you keep the construct active you have an easy access to the target, so if you have a little group of friends you frequently wish to send small messages or pinging to but don't wish to get contaminated by lingering linking, you can fill your room with speed-dial phantoms.

Happy triggering!

- Mazrim the Gnome

HZTypeArticle, HZSourcePsipog, HZCatTelepathy